Cybercriminals prefer attacks that do
the most amount of damage with the least
amount of effort.
One of the most popular forms of social
engineering that meets this description is phishing.
Phishing is the use of digital
communications to trick people into
revealing sensitive data or
deploying malicious software.
Phishing leverages many
communication technologies, but
the term is mainly used to describe
attacks that arrive by email.
Phishing attacks don't
just affect individuals.
They are also harmful to organizations.
A single employee that falls for one
of these tricks can give malicious
attackers access to systems.
Once inside, attackers can exploit
sensitive data like customer names and
product secrets.
Attackers who carry out these
attacks commonly use phishing kits.
A phishing kit is a collection of
software tools needed to launch
a phishing campaign.
People with little technical
background can use one of these kits.
Each of the tools inside
are designed to avoid detection.
As a security professional,
you should be aware of the three
main tools inside a phishing kit, so
that you can quickly identify when
they're being used and put a stop to it.
The first is malicious attachments.
These are files that are infected and can
cause harm to the organization's systems.
Phishing kits also include
fake-data collection forms.
These forms look like legitimate forms,
like a survey.
Unlike a real survey,
they ask for sensitive information that
isn't normally asked for in an email.
The third resource they include
are fraudulent web links.
These open to malicious web pages that
are designed to look like trusted brands.
Unlike actual websites,
these fraudulent sites are built to steal
information, like login credentials.
Cybercriminals can use these tools to
launch a phishing attack in many forms.
The most common is
through malicious emails.
However, they can use them in
other forms of communication too.
Most recently,
cybercriminals are using smishing and
vishing to trick people into
revealing private information.
Smishing is the use of text messages
to obtain sensitive information or
to impersonate a known source.
You've probably received these
types of messages before.
Not only are smishing
messages annoying to receive,
they're also difficult to prevent.
That's why some attackers send them.
Some smishing messages are easy to detect.
They might show signs of being malicious
like promising a cash reward for
clicking an attached link
that shouldn't be clicked.
Other times, smishing is hard to spot.
Attackers sometimes use local
area codes to appear legitimate.
Some hackers can even send
messages disguised as friends and
families of their target to fool them
into disclosing sensitive information.
Vishing is the exploitation of
electronic voice communication to obtain
sensitive information or
impersonate a known source.
During vishing attacks, criminals
pretend to be someone they're not.
For example, attackers might call
pretending to be a company representative.
They might claim that there's
a problem with your account.
And they can offer to fix it if you provide
them with sensitive information.
Most organizations use a few basic
security measures to prevent these and
any other types of phishing
attacks from becoming a problem.
For example, anti-phishing
policies spread awareness and
encourage users to follow data
security procedures correctly.
Employee training resources also help
inform employees about things to look for
when an email looks suspicious.
Another line of defense against
phishing is securing email inboxes.
Email filters are commonly used to keep
harmful messages from reaching users.
For example, specific email addresses
can be blocked using a blocklist.
Organizations often use other filters, like
allowlists, to specify IP addresses that
are approved to send
mail within the company.
Organizations also use intrusion
prevention systems to look for
unusual patterns in email traffic.
Security analysts use monitoring tools
like this to spot suspicious emails,
quarantine them, and
produce a log of events.
Phishing campaigns are popular and
dangerous forms of social engineering that
organizations of all
sizes need to deal with.
Just a single compromised password that an
attacker can get their hands on can lead
to a costly data breach.
Now that you're familiar with
the tools these attackers use,
you're better equipped to
spot phishing and prevent it.